=encoding utf8

=head1 Overview

This document is designed to help users of the home-version of Tesserae to
install, use, and modify the tool as needed. The project code can be found at
L<github.com/tesserae/tesserae|https://github.com/tesserae/tesserae>.

=head2 Navigating the Folders

=over

=item F<cgi-bin/>

This folder contains scripts that are read when finding and displaying search
results online. The scripts read the user’s specified target and source text
data, identify meaningful instances of intertextuality, and display the
results online. These scripts make up the core part of a Tesserae search
request.

=item F<css/>

This folder contains files that set the environment (such as color, font,
spacing, etc.) for search results displayed online.

=item F<data/>

This folder contains permanent data generated in the install process.

=over

=item F<batch/>

The batch folder is populated by one of the steps in the batch processing
system, which allows multiple features to be run at once.

=item F<bench/>

The bench folder contains pre-run data for test sets, Aeneid/Iliad and
BC/Aeneid. The common folder contains frequently used files such as Greek and
Latin dictionaries, tools for recognizing and storing word stems during a
search, abbreviation lists, stop words lists, etc. Many scripts in the
Tesserae program access these files regularly.

=item F<synonymy/>

The synonymy folder contains files with Latin and Greek synonym lists from
the New Testament comparisons. These files are used by the trans1 and trans2
features.

=item F<v3/> and F<v3/I<LANG>/>

The v3 folder (referring to version three of the Tesserae project) contains
the core data files for individual texts. After running the full install
process as detailed above, the user should see at least two subfolders here,
grc and la.

The Greek and Latin folders contain a large number of folders organized by
author in the format author.name_of_work. Each work has nine specific data
files as follows:

=over

=item F<author.name_of_work.freq_score_stem>

Each stem in the text is stored with a frequency statistic calculated by the
number of times that stem appears in that author’s corpus divided by the
total number of stems in the author’s corpus.

=item F<author.name_of_work.freq_score_word>

Each exact word in the text is stored with a frequency statistic calculated
by the number of times that exact word appears in that author’s corpus
divided by the total number of words in the author’s corpus.

=item F<author.name_of_work.freq_stop_stem>

Frequency statistics for stop word stems (ie, common stems that are not
considered to make meaningful allusions).

=item F<author.name_of_work.freq_stop_word>

Frequency statistics for exact stop words (ie, common words that are not
considered to make meaningful allusions).

=item F<author.name_of_work.index_stem>

An index of each stem and its location in the text.

=item F<author.name_of_work.index_word>

An index of each exact word and its location in the text.

=item F<author.name_of_work.line>

A hash of the lines in which each stem appears.

=item F<author.name_of_work.phrase>

A hash of the phrases (sentences) in which each stem appears.

=item F<author.name_of_work.token>

A hash of the locations of each word as it appears with its original markers
such as capitalization.

=back

=back

=item F<doc/>

This folder contains files with project documentation and user instructions.

=item F<html/>

This folder contains files that run the web interface of the Tesserae home
page.

=item F<images/>

This folder contains a collection of frequently used pictures such as logos,
web banners, etc.

=item F<scripts/>

This folder contains all the perl scripts (and some python) that don't need
to be run from the web interface. That means primarily scripts for setting
up the databases, indexing new texts, etc, plus a few ancillary tools like
the batch processing daemon.

For more details, see the documentation for individual scripts.

=item F<texts/>

This folder contains specially formatted text files that are ready to be run
in a search. Each work is a separate F<.tess> file; larger works are also
split into separate files for each book. The structure of this folder is
parallel to that of the F<data/v3> folder.

=item F<tmp/>

This folder is where completed search sessions are stored. As long as
sessions remain here, web-based users can revisit their past search results
by supplying the session id to B<read_bin.pl>.

=back

=cut

