=encoding utf8

=head1 Help

=head2 Results Page

The results page has several components, the most important of which is the
list of textual parallels. Other components include a set of options for
sorting and exporting results, a pager, and session details.

=head2 Reading Results

The table of results has four columns.

=head3 Target Phrase

The line number and text of the target (alluding) phrase. The matching words
are highlighted. Click on the line number to display the target phrase in
context in a new window.

=head3 Source Phrase

The text of the source (alluded-to) text. Again, clicking on the locus should
display the phrase in context.

=head3 Matched On

This gives the features shared by the two phrases. The matching features may
not be the same as the highlighted words—for example, if the feature set
searched on is stems, the default, then this column will list the dictionary
headwords matched, not the specific inflected forms. In cases where an
inflected form is ambiguous, it may cause several possible stems to appear
here.

=head3 Score

This score is a guess as to the significance of the result. Score is based on
the frequency of the matching words and on the distance between them within
each phrase. For more information on how these are calculated, please look at
the “Advanced Features” help page.

Initial testing has shown that Tesserae's score tends to correlate roughly
with human-perceived literary significance, but it remains a work in progress.
Scores may change as we continue to update the program.

=head2 Sorting

Adjust the options at the top of the page and click “Change Display” to
re-sort your results without performing the search again.

=head3 Sort Options

By default, results are sorted according to location in the target text. You
can also sort by location in the source, or by score.

Change the sort order to “decreasing” when sorting by score to put the most
significant results first.

=head2 Pages

By default, the table is split into “pages” of 100 results. Choose more or
fewer from the drop-down list and click “Change Display” to change. An
abbreviated page index appears above the table. Selecting “all” will turn this
feature off, displaying all results on the same page.

=head2 Export Options

By default, results are displayed as an html table. If you change the “format
as” drop-down, clicking the “Change Display” button will cause the results to
be downloaded to your computer as a separate file.

=head3 CSV

This format is appropriate for import into a spreadsheet such as Microsoft
Excel or OpenOffice Calc. Each result appears on a separate line. Columns are
separated by commas. Text appears within double quotation marks. Newlines are
Unix-style.

CSV results will be sorted according to the options set when you click the
button.

=head3 XML

Results are marked up in a custom XML format. This is probably only useful to
advanced users who want to do their own automated processing of the results
file. For more information please email us.

=head2 Session Details

This section gives a summary of the search settings which produced the
results. The search itself is done only once, when you click “Compare Texts”;
these settings are not affected by subsequent changes to the sort order or
other aspects of results display.

This information is for the most part probably not helpful to casual users. It
can be useful if you are saving and comparing results from multiple searches.
Note that the complete stop list is recorded here.

=cut
